[JSON-API] Docs for user management endpoints (#12432)
digital-asset/daml: docs/source/json-api/index.rst

      "status": 200
    }

Creating a New User
********************

> This endpoint exposes the Ledger API's :ref:`CreateUserRequest <com.daml.ledger.api.v1.admin.user_management_service.CreateUserRequest>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This endpoint exposes the Ledger API's :ref:`CreateUser RPC <com.daml.ledger.api.v1.admin.user_management_service.CreateUserRequest>`.
```

Author: Can you elaborate on that and whether it should be done for every reference?

HTTP Request
============

- URL: ``/v1/user/create``
- Method: ``POST``
- Content-Type: ``application/json``
- Content:

.. code-block:: json

    {
      "userId": "Carol",
      "primaryParty": "Carol",
      "rights": [
        {
          "type": "CanActAs",
          "party": "Carol"
        },
        {
          "type": "CanReadAs",
          "party": "Alice",
        },
        {
          "type": "CanReadAs",
          "party": "Bob",
        },
        {
          "type": "ParticipantAdmin"
        }
      ]
    }

> Please refer to :ref:`CreateUserRequest <com.daml.ledger.api.v1.admin.user_management_service.CreateUserRequest>` documentation for information about the meaning of the fields.

Reviewer: I'm on the fence on whether to use that reference or not. It goes against the principle of allowing users to build apps against the JSON-API only, which would entail in my mind that they don't really need to know how the gRPC API works.

> All fields in the request are required, this means that an empty JSON object is not a valid request to allocate a new user.

Author: Made optional in [this](https://github.com/digital-asset/daml/pull/12578) PR.

HTTP Response
=============

.. code-block:: json

    {

>       "result": true,

Reviewer: This is a bit confusing. What does `result: false` mean? Wouldn't the caller get an HTTP error?

Suggestoin: use the same result type as the gRPC API: the created user. This way future changes of the creation operations that add extra information to the user on the server-side will be nicely covered.

Reviewer 2: We don't automatically include results from the gRPC API, as explained [#7 here](https://github.com/digital-asset/daml/blob/9c03e7908bbd85ab1f8686cc581d49cc93beea92/ledger-service/http-json/README.md#development-guidelines).

As it happens `true` here is used not as part of the boolean type but the singleton type `true`; `false` is not in the codomain. So another representation of `unit` might be good to return, e.g. `{}`, which nicely affords future extension where we may not return anything now.

Author: I've adjusted that in a not yet merged [PR](https://github.com/digital-asset/daml/pull/12578).

      "status": 200
    }

Get Authenticated User Information
**********************************

> This endpoint exposes the Ledger API's :ref:`GetUserRequest <com.daml.ledger.api.v1.admin.user_management_service.GetUserRequest>`.

Reviewer: Same as for create.

> The user id will always be filled out with the user specified via the currently used user token.

Reviewer 3: Sorry for getting back on this one, but "ID" has to be capitalized here. You could also capitalize user if you meant to indicate that "User ID" as a whole is a specific technical term (same as "User Token"), but "ID" in the sense of "identification" always has to be capitalized.

Author: I can make `User-ID` out of this and capitalize it then I think, what do you think @garyverhaegen-da ?

Reviewer 3: I'm not familiar enough with the new user management thing to make a call here. If I had to make a decision right now I'd just go for "user ID".

Please refer to :ref:`GetUserRequest <com.daml.ledger.api.v1.admin.user_management_service.GetUserRequest>` documentation for information about the meaning of the fields.

HTTP Response
=============

.. code-block:: json

    {
      "result": {
        "userId": "Carol",
        "primaryParty": "Carol",
      },
      "status": 200
    }

Delete Specific User
********************

This endpoint exposes the Ledger API's :ref:`DeleteUserRequest <com.daml.ledger.api.v1.admin.user_management_service.DeleteUserRequest>`.

HTTP Request
============

- URL: ``/v1/user/delete``
- Method: ``POST``
- Content-Type: ``application/json``
- Content:

.. code-block:: json

    {
      "userId": "Carol"
    }

Please refer to :ref:`DeleteUserRequest <com.daml.ledger.api.v1.admin.user_management_service.DeleteUserRequest>` documentation for information about the meaning of the fields.

HTTP Response
=============

.. code-block:: json

    {
      "result": true,
      "status": 200
    }

List Users
**********

This endpoint exposes the Ledger API's :ref:`ListUsersRequest <com.daml.ledger.api.v1.admin.user_management_service.ListUsersRequest>`.

HTTP Request
============

- URL: ``/v1/users``

> - Method: ``GET``

Reviewer: Once we switch to supporting paging (will happen in the coming weeks) extra parameters need to be passed. Would you pass them via query parameters or a POST endpoint?

Reviewer 2: I think this endpoint will not support paging. If it becomes desirable ([#6 here](https://github.com/digital-asset/daml/blob/9c03e7908bbd85ab1f8686cc581d49cc93beea92/ledger-service/http-json/README.md#development-guidelines)), it will be under a separate `POST` endpoint.

Reviewer: OK.

HTTP Request
============

- URL: ``/v1/user/rights/grant``
- Method: ``POST``
- Content-Type: ``application/json``
- Content:

.. code-block:: json

    {
      "userId": "Carol",
      "rights": [
        {
          "type": "CanActAs",
          "party": "Carol"
        },
        {
          "type": "CanReadAs",
          "party": "Alice",
        },
        {
          "type": "CanReadAs",
          "party": "Bob",
        },
        {
          "type": "ParticipantAdmin"
        }
      ]
    }

Please refer to :ref:`GrantUserRightsRequest <com.daml.ledger.api.v1.admin.user_management_service.GrantUserRightsRequest>` documentation for information about the meaning of the fields.

HTTP Response
=============

.. code-block:: json

    {
      "result": [
        {
          "type": "CanActAs",
          "party": "Carol"
        },
        {
          "type": "CanReadAs",
          "party": "Alice",
        },
        {
          "type": "CanReadAs",
          "party": "Bob",
        },
        {
          "type": "ParticipantAdmin"
        }
      ],
      "status": 200
    }

> Returns back the rights which were actually applied as existing rights are ignored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns the rights that were newly granted.
```

HTTP Request
============

- URL: ``/v1/user/rights/revoke``
- Method: ``POST``
- Content-Type: ``application/json``
- Content:

.. code-block:: json

    {
      "userId": "Carol",
      "rights": [
        {
          "type": "CanActAs",
          "party": "Carol"
        },
        {
          "type": "CanReadAs",
          "party": "Alice",
        },
        {
          "type": "CanReadAs",
          "party": "Bob",
        },
        {
          "type": "ParticipantAdmin"
        }
      ]
    }

Please refer to :ref:`RevokeUserRightsRequest <com.daml.ledger.api.v1.admin.user_management_service.RevokeUserRightsRequest>` documentation for information about the meaning of the fields.

HTTP Response
=============

.. code-block:: json

    {
      "result": [
        {
          "type": "CanActAs",
          "party": "Carol"
        },
        {
          "type": "CanReadAs",
          "party": "Alice",
        },
        {
          "type": "CanReadAs",
          "party": "Bob",
        },
        {
          "type": "ParticipantAdmin"
        }
      ],
      "status": 200
    }

> Returns back the rights which were actually revoked as non-existing rights are ignored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns the rights that were actually granted.
```

      "status": 200
    }

> Creating a new User

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Creating a New User
```
Is there a specific reason why "new" is not capitalized? I cannot tell what the rule is, it looks like all verbs which are not articles are capitalized in titles.

Reviewer 2: "User" is a domain element, "new" is colloquial here? 🤷

Reviewer 3: "Proper" English title case would capitalize "new" here; pretty much everything except articles. We're not very strict about title case through the rest of our docs though so 🤷

Author: In German even within titles we do not capitalize everything. The usual rules apply there like for any other normal text (everything not capitalized except names and nouns etc.).

Overall I just noticed that I accidentally applied the German rules there :facepalm: To me correct English would have been `Creating a new user`.

Reviewer 3: > To me correct English would have been "Creating a new user".

Outside of a title, yes. Typography rules vary per language; the traditional rule in English for titles in books and journals and stuff is to capitalize everything except articles (unless the title starts with an article, in which case the first letter is still capitalized). So, like, "To the Moon We Go".

Anecdotally, the French rule for titles is to capitalize every word until the first non-article word, roughly: "To The Moon we go".

There's no real logic to these, it's just what people settled on for whatever reason.

********************

> This endpoint is a JSON API proxy for the Ledger API's :ref:`CreateUserRequest <com.daml.ledger.api.v1.admin.user_management_service.CreateUserRequest>`. For more information about user management, please refer to :ref:`Provisioning Identifiers <provisioning-ledger-identifiers>` part of the Ledger API documentation.

Author: I did not come up with a suitable replacement for the `provisioning identifiers` part yet. If one of you got an idea please tell me here :)

> This endpoint is a JSON API proxy for the Ledger API's :ref:`CreateUserRequest <com.daml.ledger.api.v1.admin.user_management_service.CreateUserRequest>`. For more information about user management, please refer to :ref:`Provisioning Identifiers <provisioning-ledger-identifiers>` part of the Ledger API documentation.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This endpoint exposes the Ledger API's :ref:`CreateUserRequest <com.daml.ledger.api.v1.admin.user_management_service.CreateUserRequest>`.
```
`is a JSON API proxy for` -> `exposes` (simpler, the reader is already aware they are reading the JSON API documentation, no need to repeat it)
The documentation you are point to does not mention the user management service, so for the time being I'd rather not point to the wrong documentation if that has not been added to the Ledger API docs yet.

Author: Thanks for the input, I was already aware that this link isn't fully correct but I still had the urge to get some replacement (as described in my comment [here](https://github.com/digital-asset/daml/pull/12432#discussion_r786974026)). 

Besides I agree to your suggestion, however wanted to make you aware of that we've used the 
> is a JSON API proxy for

part in the documentation here already (which is why you find it here too because I based my draft here on the existing documentation).

HTTP Request
============

- URL: ``/v1/user/create``
- Method: ``POST``
- Content-Type: ``application/json``
- Content:

.. code-block:: json

    {
      "userId": "Carol",
      "primaryParty": "Carol",
      "rights": [
        {
          "type": "CanActAs",
          "party": "Carol"
        },
        {
          "type": "CanReadAs",
          "party": "Alice",
        },
        {
          "type": "CanReadAs",
          "party": "Bob",
        },
        {
          "type": "ParticipantAdmin"
        }
      ]
    }

Please refer to :ref:`CreateUserRequest <com.daml.ledger.api.v1.admin.user_management_service.CreateUserRequest>` documentation for information about the meaning of the fields.

All fields in the request are required, this means that an empty JSON object is not a valid request to allocate a new user.

HTTP Response
=============

.. code-block:: json

    {
      "result": true,
      "status": 200
    }

Get Authenticated User Information
**********************************

> This endpoint is a JSON API proxy for the Ledger API's :ref:`GetUserRequest <com.daml.ledger.api.v1.admin.user_management_service.GetUserRequest>`. For more information about user management, please refer to :ref:`Provisioning Identifiers <provisioning-ledger-identifiers>` part of the Ledger API documentation.

Reviewer 4: Same comment as above, I won't bore you repeating it over and over again. 🙂

> The user id will always be filled out with the user specified via the currently used User Token.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The user id will always be filled out with the user specified via the currently used user token.
```
I'm not sure this is supposed to be capitalzed.

HTTP Request
============

- URL: ``/v1/user``
- Method: ``POST``
- Content-Type: ``application/json``
- Content:

.. code-block:: json

    {
      "userId": "Carol"
    }

Please refer to :ref:`GetUserRequest <com.daml.ledger.api.v1.admin.user_management_service.GetUserRequest>` documentation for information about the meaning of the fields.

HTTP Response
=============

.. code-block:: json

    {
      "result": {
        "userId": "Carol",
        "primaryParty": "Carol",
      },
      "status": 200
    }

Delete Current User
*******************

This endpoint is a JSON API proxy for the Ledger API's :ref:`DeleteUserRequest <com.daml.ledger.api.v1.admin.user_management_service.DeleteUserRequest>`. For more information about user management, please refer to :ref:`Provisioning Identifiers <provisioning-ledger-identifiers>` part of the Ledger API documentation.

The user id will always be filled out with the user specified via the currently used User Token.

HTTP Request
============

- URL: ``/v1/user/delete``

> - Method: ``GET``

Reviewer 4: Even though our API is not RESTful, in general I believe `GET` request are expected to be non-destructive. Is there a reason why we decided not to make a `POST` out of this? /cc @S11001001

Reviewer 2: This should indeed be a POST.

Reviewer 3: I think I'd prefer not having this at all. Having to supply a body seems less error prone than having a different behaviour based on whether you supply a body or not (i.e. only keep the "Delete Specific User" one).

Author: We decided to remove that GET endpoint, therefor will remove the documentation here.

HTTP Response
=============

.. code-block:: json

    {
      "result": true,
      "status": 200
    }

Delete Specific User
********************

This endpoint is a JSON API proxy for the Ledger API's :ref:`DeleteUserRequest <com.daml.ledger.api.v1.admin.user_management_service.DeleteUserRequest>`. For more information about user management, please refer to :ref:`Provisioning Identifiers <provisioning-ledger-identifiers>` part of the Ledger API documentation.

HTTP Request
============

- URL: ``/v1/user/delete``
- Method: ``POST``
- Content-Type: ``application/json``
- Content:

.. code-block:: json

    {
      "userId": "Carol"
    }

Please refer to :ref:`DeleteUserRequest <com.daml.ledger.api.v1.admin.user_management_service.DeleteUserRequest>` documentation for information about the meaning of the fields.

HTTP Response
=============

.. code-block:: json

    {
      "result": true,
      "status": 200
    }

> List users

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
List Users
```
Keeping the capitalization consistent.

============

- URL: ``/v1/user/rights/grant``
- Method: ``POST``
- Content-Type: ``application/json``
- Content:

.. code-block:: json

    {
      "userId": "Carol",
      "rights": [
        {
          "type": "CanActAs",
          "party": "Carol"
        },
        {
          "type": "CanReadAs",
          "party": "Alice",
        },
        {
          "type": "CanReadAs",
          "party": "Bob",
        },
        {
          "type": "ParticipantAdmin"
        }
      ]
    }

Please refer to :ref:`GrantUserRightsRequest <com.daml.ledger.api.v1.admin.user_management_service.GrantUserRightsRequest>` documentation for information about the meaning of the fields.

HTTP Response
=============

.. code-block:: json

    {
      "result": [
        {
          "type": "CanActAs",
          "party": "Carol"
        },
        {
          "type": "CanReadAs",
          "party": "Alice",
        },
        {
          "type": "CanReadAs",
          "party": "Bob",
        },
        {
          "type": "ParticipantAdmin"
        }
      ],
      "status": 200
    }

Returns back the rights which were actually applied as existing rights are ignored.

Revoke User Rights

> *****************

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
******************
```

I contributed!

Author: thanks!

          "party": "Bob",
        },
        {
          "type": "ParticipantAdmin"
        }
      ]
    }

Please refer to :ref:`RevokeUserRightsRequest <com.daml.ledger.api.v1.admin.user_management_service.RevokeUserRightsRequest>` documentation for information about the meaning of the fields.

HTTP Response
=============

.. code-block:: json

    {
      "result": [
        {
          "type": "CanActAs",
          "party": "Carol"
        },
        {
          "type": "CanReadAs",
          "party": "Alice",
        },
        {
          "type": "CanReadAs",
          "party": "Bob",
        },
        {
          "type": "ParticipantAdmin"
        }
      ],
      "status": 200
    }

Returns back the rights which were actually revoked as non-existing rights are ignored.

List Authenticated User Rights
******************************

This endpoint is a JSON API proxy for the Ledger API's :ref:`ListUserRightsRequest <com.daml.ledger.api.v1.admin.user_management_service.ListUserRightsRequest>`. For more information about user management, please refer to :ref:`Provisioning Identifiers <provisioning-ledger-identifiers>` part of the Ledger API documentation.

> The user id will always be filled out with the user specified via the currently used User Token.

Reviewer 3: I'm not entirely sure which one we want here, but if User Token is capitalized I'd also capitalize User ID. Or neither.

Author: Let's just not capitalize it, after all we are not in German ._.

HTTP Request
============

- URL: ``/v1/user/rights``
- Method: ``GET``

HTTP Response
=============

.. code-block:: json

    {
      "result": [
        {
          "type": "CanActAs",
          "party": "Carol"
        },
        {
          "type": "CanReadAs",
          "party": "Alice",
        },
        {
          "type": "CanReadAs",
          "party": "Bob",
        },
        {
          "type": "ParticipantAdmin"
        }
      ],
      "status": 200
    }

List Specific User Rights

> *****************

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
*************************
```
